Add "Quick Start" minimal tutorial, "Configuration", and "Reference" to `payjoin-cli` README (#624)
payjoin/rust-payjoin: payjoin-cli/README.md

# `payjoin-cli`

## A command-line payjoin client for [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin?tab=readme-ov-file) in Rust.

`payjoin-cli` is the reference implementation for the payjoin protocol, written using the [Payjoin Dev Kit](https://payjoindevkit.org).

It enables sending and receiving [BIP 78 Payjoin
(v1)](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0078.mediawiki) and [Draft
BIP 77 Async Payjoin (v2)](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1483)
transactions via `bitcoind`. By default it supports Payjoin v2, which is
backwards compatible with v1. Enable the `v1` feature to disable Payjoin v2 to
send and receive using only v1.

While this code and design have had significant testing, it is still alpha-quality experimental software. Use at your own risk.

Independent audit is welcome.

## Quick Start

Here's a minimal payjoin example using `payjoin-cli` with the `v2` feature connected to `bitcoind` on [regtest](https://developer.bitcoin.org/examples/testing.html#regtest-mode). This example uses [`nigiri`](https://github.com/vulpemventures/nigiri) to setup a regtest environment. 

> Payjoin `v2` allows for transactions to be completed asynchronously. Thus the sender and receiver do not need to be online at the same time to payjoin. To make this work, we need a payjoin directory server and OHTTP relay. Learn more about how `v2` works [here](https://payjoin.org/docs/how-it-works/payjoin-v2-bip-77).

Reviewer: This makes it sound like we need to run a directory + relay ourselves. The config.toml speaks for itself later on.

```suggestion
Payjoin `v2` allows for transactions to be completed asynchronously. Thus the sender and receiver do not need to be online at the same time to payjoin. Learn more about how `v2` works [here](https://payjoin.org/docs/how-it-works/payjoin-v2-bip-77).
```

To get started, install `nigiri`. Payjoin requires the sender and receiver each to have spendable [UTXOs](https://www.unchained.com/blog/what-is-a-utxo-bitcoin), so we'll create two wallets and fund each.

```sh
cargo install nigiri

nigiri rpc createwallet "sender"
nigiri rpc createwallet "receiver"

# We need 101 blocks for the UTXOs to be spendable due to the coinbase maturity requirement.
nigiri rpc generatetoaddress $(nigiri rpc getnewaddress "sender") 101
nigiri rpc generatetoaddress $(nigiri rpc getnewaddress "receiver") 101
```

Great! Our wallets are setup, now let's do an async payjoin.

### Install `payjoin-cli`

```sh

> cargo install payjoin-cli --version $VERSION

Reviewer: v2 is default now

```suggestion
cargo install payjoin-cli --version $VERSION
```

# `payjoin-cli`

## A command-line payjoin client for [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin?tab=readme-ov-file) in Rust.

`payjoin-cli` is the reference implementation for the payjoin protocol, written using the [Payjoin Dev Kit](https://payjoindevkit.org).

> It enables sending and receiving [BIP 78 Payjoin V1](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0078.mediawiki) and [Draft BIP Payjoin V2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1483) (also known as Async Payjoin) transactions via `bitcoind`. By default it supports Payjoin V1, and the `v2` feature sends and receives both since the protocol is backwards compatible.

Reviewer 2: The defaults have been switched.

```suggestion
It enables sending and receiving [BIP 78 Payjoin (v1)](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0078.mediawiki) and [Draft BIP 77 Async Payjoin (v2)](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1483) transactions via `bitcoind`. By default it supports Payjoin v2, which is backwards compatible with v1. Enable the `v1` feature to disable Payjoin v2 and sends and receives only v1 transactions.
```

Payjoin `v2` allows for transactions to be completed asynchronously. Thus the sender and receiver do not need to be online at the same time to payjoin. To make this work, we need a payjoin directory server and OHTTP relay. Learn more about how `v2` works [here](https://payjoin.org/docs/how-it-works/payjoin-v2-bip-77).

To get started, install `nigiri`. Payjoin requires the sender and receiver each to have spendable [UTXOs](https://www.unchained.com/blog/what-is-a-utxo-bitcoin), so we'll create two wallets and fund each with spendable UTXOs.

```sh
cargo install nigiri

nigiri rpc createwallet "sender"
nigiri rpc createwallet "receiver"

# We need 101 blocks for the UTXOs to be spendable due to the coinbase maturity requirement.
nigiri rpc generatetoaddress $(nigiri rpc getnewaddress "sender") 101
nigiri rpc generatetoaddress $(nigiri rpc getnewaddress "receiver") 101
```

Great! Our wallets are setup, now let's do an async payjoin.

### Install `payjoin-cli`

```sh

> cargo install payjoin-cli --version $VERSION --features v2

Reviewer 2: v2 is default now

```

where `$VERSION` is the [latest version](https://crates.io/crates/payjoin-cli).

Next, create a directory for the sender & receiver and create a `config.toml` file for each:

```sh
mkdir sender receiver
touch sender/config.toml receiver/config.toml
```

Edit the `config.toml` files. Note that the `v2` feature requires a payjoin directory server and OHTTP relay. Learn more about them [here](https://payjoin.org/docs/how-it-works/payjoin-v2-bip-77).

```toml
# sender/config.toml

# Nigiri uses the following RPC credentials
bitcoind_rpcuser = "admin1"
bitcoind_rpcpassword = "123"

> bitcoind_rpchost = "http://localhost:18443/wallet/sender"

Reviewer 2: the new config in [the example](https://github.com/payjoin/rust-payjoin/blob/master/payjoin-cli/example.config.toml) shows how this syntax won't work any longer. It's separated into toml subsections

# For v2, our config also requires a payjoin directory server and OHTTP relay
pj_directory = "https://payjo.in"
ohttp_relay = "https://pj.bobspacebkk.com"
```

```toml
# receiver/config.toml

# Nigiri uses the following RPC credentials
bitcoind_rpcuser = "admin1"
bitcoind_rpcpassword = "123"
bitcoind_rpchost = "http://localhost:18443/wallet/receiver"

# For v2, our config also requires a payjoin directory server and OHTTP relay
pj_directory = "https://payjo.in"
ohttp_relay = "https://pj.bobspacebkk.com"
```

Now, the receiver must generate an address to receive the payment:

```sh
receiver/payjoin-cli receive 10000
```

> This will output a [BIP21](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0021.mediawiki) URL containing the receiver's address, amount, payjoin directory, and OHTTP relay. For example:

Reviewer 2: - URI != URL
- I prefer the name of the thing over the BIP number if referencing the thing it defines and not the spec itself
- OHTTP relay isn't encoded. Only client session info (session keys, ohttp key configuration for directory, expiration time encoded in the fragment)
```suggestion
This will output a [bitcoin URI](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0021.mediawiki) containing the receiver's address, amount, payjoin directory, and other session information the client needs. For example:
```

```sh
bitcoin:bcrt1qmdfqplpqy9jatyul6vtcvl26sp3u3vs89986w0?amount=0.0001&pj_directory=https://payjo.in&ohttp_relay=https://pj.bobspacebkk.com

> ```

Reviewer 2: You'll see when you're running that this isn't a valid bip77/bip78 pjuri

Note that the session can be paused by pressing `Ctrl+C`. The receiver can come back online and resume the session by running `payjoin-cli resume` again, and the sender may do a `send` against it while the receiver is offline.

### Send a Payjoin

Now, let's send the payjoin:

```sh

> sender/payjoin-cli send bitcoin:bcrt1qmdfqplpqy9jatyul6vtcvl26sp3u3vs89986w0?amount=0.0001&pj_directory=https://payjo.in&ohttp_relay=https://pj.bobspacebkk.com --fee-rate 10

Reviewer 2: replace with valid uri

pj_directory = "https://payjo.in"              # Payjoin directory server
ohttp_relay = "https://pj.bobspacebkk.com"     # OHTTP relay service
```

### Asynchronous Operation

Sender and receiver state is saved to a database in the directory from which `payjoin-cli` is run, called `payjoin.sled`. Once a send or receive session is started, it may resume using the `resume` argument if prior payjoin sessions have not yet complete.

## Usage

Get a list of commands and options:

```sh
payjoin-cli --help
```

### CLI Reference

#### Commands

| Command  | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `send`   | Send a payjoin transaction |
| `receive`| Receive a payjoin transaction |
| `help`   | Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s) |

#### Options

| Option | Flag | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| `--rpchost` | `-r` | The port of the bitcoin node |
| `--cookie-file` | `-c` | Path to the cookie file of the bitcoin node |
| `--rpcuser` | | The username for the bitcoin node |
| `--rpcpassword` | | The password for the bitcoin node |
| `--db-path` | `-d` | Sets a custom database path |
| `--help` | `-h` | Print help information |

> | `--version` | `-V` | Print version information |

Reviewer 2: This is gonna go stale. Can writing how `--help` be used instead?
